---
id: Roles
title: Roles
sidebar_label: Roles
---

## `General Description`

Roles define what users can see and do in the application. Plant an App comes with a list of pre-built roles and other roles can added to define your own security logic. Roles can be added, edited or deleted, and can be setup to restrict access at a Page level, component level, actions, workflows, entities or any other module specific feature that support permissions (eg: API Calls, Search index rules, etc.).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zOGVh-zEsqs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## `Permision Scheme`

### `Pages`
Setting page permission will restrict access to the whole content of a page. Also edit permission can be enabled based on the roles. 

### `Entities`
Permissions set on a entity level will automatically change the autogenerated page permissions and the access what operations can be done via the user interface like Create Read Update or Delete. Also the same permissions will be applied to the actions witch are used to do CRUD operations like Create, Update, Partially Update, Read and Delete an Entity.

### `Modules`
Each Module individually has each own permissions and can be modified individually to restrict access or grant edit options to roles. 

### `Actions & Buttons`

All the Actions and buttons that can be used in the Plant an App platform have 2 settings called Condition (Show Condition) and Enable Condition that supports permissions tokens. Based on those we can create complex access securities.  `[HasRole:RoleName]` will check if the logged in user (or the user from [Load User](/docs/Actions/load-user.md)/[Load Users from SQL](/docs/Actions/load-users-sql.md)) and return `true` or `false` depending if the user it is in that role or not. (eg: [HasRole:Admin] ==  true can be used on a button to only enable it for an user in the Admin role)

### `API JWT Autentification`

Authenticating with JWT to use an API resources has to be done in the name of a user so permissions can be set to only permit to specific roles.

### `Search index rules`

Some result may restricted based on the roles by specifying the roles who have access to each results.

## `Role Management`

## `Built-in Roles`

## `Low-Level roles`

## `Examples`





